# MD10: Archived list for things I currently working on

## January 2025

#### Porting Hyper-V Enhanced Session mode over VMBus to Hyper-V Linux guests.

Status: Working In Progress

I have considered a lot. Finally, I decided to write a userspace VMBus to TCP
proxy based on uio_hv_generic because Linux kernel module development is too
messy for me. I have made a implementation with some stability issues which
need to fix. If people can help me will be good. Also, this implementation is
written fully in C# and it should be the good example for using uio_hv_generic
kernel module which contributed by Microsoft guys.

Implementation: https://github.com/SherryPlatform/HvGin

#### NanaZip 5.x

Status: Working In Progress

NanaZip 5.0 has been released with UFS/UFS2 support, which makes me more happy
with BSD because I have a way which makes me can extract files from a BSD
partition without mounting for Windows. I got some help from NishiOwO for
UFS/UFS2 on-disk definitions.

I think this year at least we can see NanaZip 5.1 stable.

#### Switch to FreeBSD

Status: Working In Progress

I hope I can switch to FreeBSD as my development platform because its license is
suitable for me to customize the system.

NanaZip 5.0 has been ready. I have tried to use FreeBSD as my development
platform. But there are some issues need to solve. For example, the lack of
Visual Studio Code Remote SSH support for FreeBSD. But at least we have Windows
Terminal as the SSH client.

## May 2024

#### NanaZip 3.0

Status: Finished

https://github.com/M2Team/NanaZip/releases/tag/3.0.1000.0

## January 2024

#### Implement the new Windows backend for LVGL.

Status: Finished

Merged in the mainline via https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/pull/5313.

## December 2023

#### NanaZip 3.0 Preview 1

Status: Working In Progress

NanaZip 3.0 and onwards will have two distribution flavors called NanaZip and
NanaZip Classic.

I feel tired due to health issues but I still keep up the development.

#### Porting Hyper-V Enhanced Session mode over VMBus to Hyper-V Linux guests.

Status: Working In Progress

I have written a validation demo for Windows 8 guests before I write the Linux
kernel module. Here is the demonstration video:
https://twitter.com/MouriNaruto/status/1700922160905359757

Note: Hyper-V Enhanced Session mode over VMBus transport originally needs
Windows 8.1 or later in the guest.

#### Implement the new Windows backend for LVGL. (Early December 2023)

Status: Working In Progress

OSAL is ready. I'm working on the new Windows backend.

The LVGL input device abstraction is ready.

#### Implement the optimized parser version of RaySoul.

Status: Paused

I had read the RISC-V ISA manual in 2023 Q4 but had found lot of design issues.

For example, the C extension will make us more difficult to write a decoder
which higher performance than others.

I also found I am not good at write a bytecode VM. I am good at build platform 
abstraction.

## November 2023

#### NanaBox 1.1 (Late November 2023)

Status: Finished

https://github.com/M2Team/NanaBox/releases/tag/1.1.600.0

## September 2023

#### Split the LZMA SDK as a separate module in NanaZip. 

Status: Canceled

It's not realistic due to strong coupling between LZMA SDK and other parts in
the 7-Zip mainline source code. But we can split the 7z.dll part as a separate
module because 7-Zip maintains good ABI compatibility for that.

So, I have a better plan for achieve the original goal: Create NanaZip.Core
project for making me track the modifications from upstreams better in the
future.

#### Create NanaZip.Core project for rewriting the core implementation.

Status: Finished

The development work on NanaZip.Core project has been completed successfully.
In the next version of NanaZip will use this implementation.

#### Synchronize the LZMA SDK and 7-Zip implementations to 23.01 in NanaZip.

Status: Finished

This task had been finished because the development work on NanaZip.Core project
has been completed successfully. Because NanaZip.Core project is based on 7-Zip
23.01 at the beginning.
